Awards
AUTONOMOUS AGENTS RESEARCH AWARD
The ACM/SIGAI Autonomous Agents Research Award is an annual
award for excellence in research in the area of autonomous agents.
The award is intended to recognise researchers in autonomous
agents whose current work is an important in￿uence on the￿eld.
It is an o￿cial ACM award, funded by an endowment created from
the proceeds of the Autonomous Agents conferences.
Recipient: The selection committee for the ACM/SIGAI Au-
tonomous Agents Research Award is pleased to announce that
Professor Catholijn Jonker is the recipient of the 2024 award.
Citation: Professor Catholijn Jonker is full professor of Interactive
Intelligence at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Mathematics,
and Computer Science of the Delft University of Technology. Profes-
sor Jonker is a leader in the￿eld of human-machine interaction, in
particular regarding modeling the cognitive processes and concepts
involved in negotiation and teamwork. Professor Jonker initiated
the Automated Negotiating Agents Competition at AAMAS and
IJCAI. She has also contributed to other research domains such as
integrating interactive intelligence for hybrid intelligent systems.
She is also very active in advancing research into value-sensitive
and responsible AI. She is very much involved in promoting women
in academic positions. She chaired the Network of Female Profes-
sors. She is a role model for many young researchers. Her research
is highly visible and praised. Professor Jonker received numerous
awards. She was the past President of IFAAMAS.
INFLUENTIAL PAPER AWARD
The IFAAMAS In￿uential Paper Award seeks to recognise publica-
tions that have made in￿uential and long-lasting contributions to
the￿eld. Candidates for this award are papers that have proved a
key result, led to the development of a new sub￿eld, demonstrated
a signi￿cant new application or system, or simply presented a new
way of thinking about a topic that has proved in￿uential.
This year’s award committee selected two papers (not ordered) to
be recognised with an IFAAMAS In￿uential Paper Award.
Paper: Peyman Faratin, Carles Sierra, Nicholas R. Jennings. Ne-
gotiation decision functions for autonomous agents. Robotics and
Autonomous Systems, Vol. 24, No. 3-4, pp. 159–182, 1988.
Citation: Faratin, Sierra, and Jennings published a highly in￿u-
ential contribution to agent research through a seminal article on
agent negotiation. As of today, the article has received 1681 citations.
Together with Rosenschein’s and Zlotkin’s “Rules of Encounter,”
this article set the foundations for the￿eld of automated negotiation
and nowadays underpins most of the current research on the topic.
In fact, the research issues posed in the article continue to guide the
research on agent negotiation. As a matter of fact, the aims of the
”Automated Negotiating Agents Competition”, run in the realm of
the AAMAS conference (since 2010), were already outlined in this
paper. The recent interest in Diplomacy and the Hanabi challenge
has revived the interest in agent negotiation, which is called to
play a fundamental role in cooperative arti￿cial intelligence in the
future.
Paper: Leonid Peshkin, Kee-Eung Kim, Nicolas Meuleau, Leslie
Pack Kaelbling. Learning to cooperate via policy search. In: Proceed-
ings of the 16th Conference on Uncertainty in Arti￿cial Intelligence,
Stanford, California, pages 489–496, July 2000.
Citation: This paper makes a simple, but critical observation: in
decentralized settings, like Dec-POMDP, the ’policy gradient’ is
decentralizable. This means that when taking the normal central-
ized policy gradient and inspecting what information is needed to
update the parameters of some agent i, it turns out that this gradi-
ent does not depend on any information of other agents. This is a
very important result, because it implies that agents can implement
decentralized learning - only needing to observe the team reward -
with guarantees of converging to a local optimum. This stands in
stark contrast to value-based methods, such as Q-learning using
individual information, for which no such results are known. It
also provides an explanation of the large success that actor-critic
methods have been having in recent years, and has been a key
building block in many methods.
DISTINGUISHED DISSERTATION AWARD
The Victor Lesser Distinguished Dissertation Award is given for dis-
sertations in the￿eld of autonomous agents and multiagent systems
that show originality, depth, impact, as well as quality of writing,
supported by high-quality publications.
The recipient of the 2023 IFAAMAS Victor Lesser Distinguished
Dissertation Award is Dr. Niclas Boehmer , whose thesis entitled
“Application-Oriented Collective Decision- Making: Experimental
Toolbox and Dynamic Environments” was supervised by Prof. Rolf
Niedermeier and by Dr. Markus Brill at TU Berlin. The selection
committee also decided to recognise two further nominees (not
ordered), namely Dr. Gabriele Farina for his thesis “Game-Theoretic
Decision Making in Imperfect-Information Games: Learning Dy-
namics, Equilibrium Computation, and Complexity” supervised by
Prof. Tuomas Sandholm at Carnegie Mellon University, and Dr. Evi
Micha for his thesis “Fair and E￿cient Social Decision Making”
supervised by Dr. Nisarg Shah at the University of Toronto.
xlviii
BEST PAPER AWARDS
Amongst the many excellent submission received, the conference
will honour two of the full papers in the main track with awards:
the Best Paper Award (for which all papers are eligible), and the
Pragnesh Jay Modi Best Student Paper Award (for a paper with a
principal author who is a student).
The three papers listed below are￿nalists for the Best Paper Award:
• Yaoxin Ge, Yao Zhang, Dengji Zhao, Zhihao Gavin Tang,
Hu Fu and Pinyan Lu. Incentives for Early Arrival in Coop-
erative Games.
• Evan Albers, Mohammad Irfan and Matthew Bosch. Beliefs,
Shocks, and the Emergence of Roles in Asset Markets: An
Agent-Based Modeling Approach.
• Grant Forbes, Nitish Gupta, Leonardo Villalobos-Arias,
Colin Potts, Arnav Jhala and David Roberts. Potential-Based
Reward Shaping for Intrinsic Motivation.
The three papers listed below are￿nalists for the Pragnesh Jay Modi
Best Student Paper Award:
• Junqi Jiang, Francesco Leofante, Antonio Rago and
Francesca Toni. Recourse under Model Multiplicity via Ar-
gumentative Ensembling.
• Gauri Gupta, Ritvik Kapila, Ayush Chopra and Ramesh
Raskar. First 100 days of pandemic; an interplay of phar-
maceutical, behavioral and digital interventions - A study
using agent based modeling.
• Chenyuan Zhang, Charles Kemp and Nir Lipovetzky. Hu-
man Goal Recognition as Bayesian Inference: Investigating
the Impact of Actions, Timing, and Goal Solvability.
The winners will be announced during the conference banquet.
The Pragnesh Jay Modi Best Student Paper Award is generously
supported by Springer.
BLUE SKY IDEAS AWARD
The focus of the Blue Sky Ideas track is on visionary ideas, long-term
challenges, new research opportunities, and controversial debate. It
serves as an incubator for innovative, risky, and provocative ideas,
and it aims at providing a forum for publishing and presenting such
ideas without being constrained by the result-oriented standards
followed for the main track of the conference.
At the conference, one of the papers submitted to this special track
will receive the Blue Sky Ideas Award.
The Blue Sky Ideas track is generously supported by the Computing
Community Consortium (CCC).
BEST DEMO AWARD
The Best Demo Award will be bestowed upon the authors of the most
applicable and innovative contribution to the Demonstration track.
The winner will get announced during the conference banquet.
pxlix
