Awards
AUTONOMOUS AGENTS RESEARCH AWARD
The ACM/SIGAI Autonomous Agents Research Award is an annual
award for excellence in research in the area of autonomous agents.
The award is intended to recognise researchers in autonomous
agents whose current work is an important influence on the field.
It is an official ACM award, funded by an endowment created from
the proceeds of the Autonomous Agents conferences.
Recipient: The selection committee for the ACM/SIGAI Au-
tonomous Agents Research Award is pleased to announce that
Professor Shlomo Zilberstein is the recipient of the 2025 award.
Citation: Professor Shlomo Zilberstein is a full professor of
Computer Science at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. Prof
Zilberstein’s work established the field of decentralized Markov De-
cision Processes (DEC-MDPs), laying the groundwork for decision-
theoretic planning in multiagent systems and multiagent reinforce-
ment learning (MARL). These contributions have become a corner-
stone of multiagent decision-making, influencing researchers and
practitioners alike. Prof. Zilberstein is a Fellow of the Association
for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI) and received
the IFAAMAS Influential Paper Award (2019) as well as the AAAI
Distinguished Service Award (2019), among many other awards.
INFLUENTIAL PAPER AWARD
The IFAAMAS Influential Paper Award seeks to recognise publica-
tions that have made influential and long-lasting contributions to
the field. Candidates for this award are papers that have proved a
key result, led to the development of a new subfield, demonstrated
a significant new application or system, or simply presented a new
way of thinking about a topic that has proved influential.
This year’s award committee selected the following paper to be
recognized with an IFAAMAS Influential Paper Award:
Paper: Reynolds, Craig W. Flocks, Herds and Schools: A Dis-
tributed Behavioral Model. Proceedings of the 14th Annual Confer-
ence on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques, pp. 25–34,
1987.
Citation: The selected paper introduced a seminal model of col-
lective motion that has inspired a generation of multiagent systems
researchers. A generative procedural model for flock animation, a
simulation platform for testing theories about real animals, and a
compelling example of emergence from simple rules, it took the ap-
proach of modeling a flock as a collection of individual autonomous
agents, each perceiving their local environment and computing a
motor signal to steer their path, with global flock motion emerg-
ing from interactions amongst the agents. In the 37 years since its
publication, the paper has received over 15,000 citations on Google
Scholar, impacting numerous disciplines, including our own.
DISTINGUISHED DISSERTATION AWARD
The Victor Lesser Distinguished Dissertation Award is given for dis-
sertations in the field of autonomous agents and multiagent systems
that show originality, depth, impact, as well as quality of writing,
supported by high-quality publications.
The recipient of the 2024 IFAAMAS Victor Lesser Distinguished
Dissertation Award is Dr. Jannik Peters, whose thesis entitled “Facets
of Proportionality Selecting Committees, Budgets, and Clusters”
was supervised by Prof. Markus Brill at TU Berlin.
The selection committee also wishes to recognize Dr. Lily Xu
as a runner-up for her thesis “High-stakes decisions from low-
quality data: AI decision-making for planetary health” supervised
by Prof. Milind Tambe at Harvard University.
BEST PAPER AWARDS
Among the many excellent submissions received, the conference
will honor three of the full papers in the main track with awards:
one with the Best Paper Award (for which all papers are eligible),
and two with the Pragnesh Jay Modi Best Student Paper Award (for
papers with a principal author who is a student).
The winner of the Best Paper Award is:
• Marc Lanctot, Kate Larson, Michael Kaisers, Quentin Berthet,
Ian Gemp, Manfred Diaz, Roberto-Rafael Maura-Rivero, Yoram
Bachrach, Anna Koop, Doina Precup. Soft Condorcet Opti-
mization for Ranking of General Agents.
The two papers listed below are the winners of the Pragnesh Jay
Modi Best Student Paper Award:
• Francesco Pontiggia, Filip Macák, Roman Andriushchenko,
Michele Chiari, Milan Ceska. Decentralized Planning Using
Probabilistic Hyperproperties.
• Parisa Ghanad Torshizi, Laura B. Hensel, Ari Shapiro, Stacy
Marsella. Large Language Models for Virtual Human Gesture
Selection.
In addition, we recognize the following paper as a runner-up for
the Best Student Paper Award:
• Xinghai Wei, Tingting Yuan, Jie Yuan, Dongxiao Liu, Xiaom-
ing Fu. ReSCOM: Reward-Shaped Curriculum for Efficient
Multi-Agent Communication Learning.
The Pragnesh Jay Modi Best Student Paper Award is generously
supported by Springer.
BLUE SKY IDEAS AWARD
The focus of the Blue Sky Ideas track is on visionary ideas, long-term
challenges, new research opportunities, and controversial debate. It
serves as an incubator for innovative, risky, and provocative ideas,
and it aims at providing a forum for publishing and presenting such
ideas without being constrained by the results-oriented standards
followed in the main track of the conference.
At the conference, one of the papers submitted to this special
track will receive the Blue Sky Ideas Award.
The Blue Sky Ideas track is generously supported by the Com-
puting Community Consortium (CCC).
BEST DEMO AWARD
The Best Demo Award will be bestowed upon the authors of the most
applicable and innovative contribution to the Demonstration track.
The winner will be announced during the conference banquet.
