AAMAS 2027 - Submission Instructions
Submission Instructions
The 26th International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems
Papers should be written in English, be prepared for double-blind reviewing, be submitted as a PDF document, and conform to our formatting guidelines:
Download
Papers submitted to the main track must be at most
eight (8)
pages long, with any number of additional pages containing bibliographic references. Excessive use of typesetting tricks to make everything fit into 8 pages is not admissible. Please do not modify the style files or any of the layout parameters.
The use of LaTeX is mandatory.
Please note that registering an abstract of your paper (of around 100-300 words in plain text) is required one week before the paper submission deadline, and you will be asked to provide some additional information at this time, such as keywords characterizing your paper. Please also note that every author on a paper must have an account on OpenReview; the deadline for this is two weeks before abstract submission.
Papers must be associated with one of the AAMAS areas. Area Chairs will check that abstracts are within scope for the area; if not we will attempt to identify a more appropriate area but will desk reject the paper if this can not be done.
We recommend not to wait until the very last moment to submit. You can revise and resubmit your paper any number of times until the submission deadline. Please register your abstract and submit your paper on OpenReview here:
https://openreview.net/group?id=ifaamas.org/AAMAS/2027/Conference
If the primary author of your paper, i.e., first author or co-first author, is a student, then please register your paper as a student paper by checking the “the primary author is a student” checkbox. This applies to doctoral or any other kind of student. The information that the paper is a ‘student paper’ will not be shared with reviewers and is used only to determine eligibility for the Pragnesh Jay Modi Best Student Paper Award.
Note that altering the author list of a paper, or changing the order of authors, after acceptance is not allowed.
Supplementary Material
You have the option to accompany your AAMAS submission with supplementary material. We encourage providing supplementary material containing, e.g., missing or more comprehensive versions of your proofs, detailed information about conducted experiments, source code, datasets, or anything else that may be helpful in making your results reproducible. Note that reviewers are not required to look at supplementary material.
Supplementary material should be submitted as a single zip file and should not exceed 25MB.
Do not use supplementary material to submit an extended or corrected version of your paper: the reviewers will review the submitted version of your paper and consult supplementary material at their discretion. Any information that is essential for understanding or evaluating your paper must be included in the paper itself. For example, it is not recommended to relegate most of the proofs of your theoretical results to the supplementary material. Further, you must ensure that your supplementary material does not compromise the anonymity of your submission.
IFAAMAS will not publish your supplementary material. Nevertheless, if your paper is accepted for the Proceedings of AAMAS 2027 or the Findings of AAMAS 2027, then the readers of your published paper should have access to the same information as the reviewers of your submission. This entails that you should make your (suitably revised) supplementary material openly available in archival form at the time of publication of your paper, and that you should include a reference to the supplementary material in the camera-ready version of your paper. For code or data you may wish to use a service such as Zenodo or github. For a technical appendix with additional proof details or similar, you may wish to use an archival preprint server such as arXiv.
Policy on AI-assisted Technologies for Authors [such as large language models (LLMs), chatbots, and image creators]
AI-assisted technologies may not be listed as authors or co-authors on papers submitted to AAMAS. It is permissible to use AI-assisted technologies for the polishing and formatting of text and in the creation of code and scripts used in proofs-of-concept, demonstrations and experiments. Where used in the creation of hypotheses or methodologies, including experimental design, detailed information should be provided in the paper or in the supplementary material, including the prompt used, as well as the AI tool and its version. Authors are accountable for the accuracy of the work and for ensuring that there is no plagiarism. They must also ensure that all sources are appropriately cited and should carefully review the work to guard against bias that may be introduced by such tools. Area Chairs may choose to desk reject papers if assistive technology is used inappropriately, e.g., hallucinated citations. Reviewers will not be allowed to use assistive technology in generating or writing their reviews.
AI-generated images and other multimedia are only permitted if generative AI is the topic of the paper, and such images or multimedia are provided as qualitative evidence of the research output.
Policy on Dual Submission and Thin-Sliced Submission
Authors must not submit substantially similar work to AAMAS 2027 and another archival venue at the same time, or submit the same work elsewhere while it remains under review at AAMAS 2027. Preprint servers such as arXiv, and workshops without formal proceedings, do not count as archival venues. Submissions that constitute ‘thin slicing’ or whose publication would make another overlapping submission too incremental may be rejected. Violations of this policy may result in desk rejection at any point during the review or program-building process.