
[PDF PAGE 1]
Preprint.
SELF-EVOLVING MULTI-AGENT COLLABORATION NET-
WORKS FOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
Yue Hu1, Yuzhu Cai2,3, Yaxin Du1, Xinyu Zhu1, Xiangrui Liu1, Zijie Yu1,
Yuchen Hou1, Shuo Tang1, Siheng Chen1,3
1 Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 2 Beihang University, 3 Shanghai AI Laboratory
1 {1867112931,sihengc}@sjtu.edu.cn, 2 caiyuzhu@buaa.edu.cn
ABSTRACT
LLM-driven multi-agent collaboration (MAC) systems have demonstrated impres-
sive capabilities in automatic software development at the function level. How-
ever, their heavy reliance on human design limits their adaptability to the diverse
demands of real-world software development. To address this limitation, we in-
troduce EvoMAC, a novel self-evolving paradigm for MAC networks. Inspired
by traditional neural network training, EvoMAC obtains text-based environmen-
tal feedback by verifying the MAC network’s output against a target proxy and
leverages a novel textual backpropagation to update the network. To extend cod-
ing capabilities beyond function-level tasks to more challenging software-level
development, we further propose rSDE-Bench, a requirement-oriented software de-
velopment benchmark, which features complex and diverse software requirements
along with automatic evaluation of requirement correctness. Our experiments
show that: i) The automatic requirement-aware evaluation in rSDE-Bench closely
aligns with human evaluations, validating its reliability as a software-level cod-
ing benchmark. ii) EvoMAC outperforms previous SOTA methods on both the
software-level rSDE-Bench and the function-level HumanEval benchmarks, re-
flecting its superior coding capabilities. The benchmark can be downloaded at
https://yuzhu-cai.github.io/rSDE-Bench/.
1
INTRODUCTION
Automatic software development focuses on generating code from natural language requirements.
Code is a universal problem-solving tool, and this automation presents significant potential to
provide substantial benefits across all areas of our lives Li et al. (2022a). Recently, the industry
has introduced several large language model (LLM)-driven coding assistants, including Microsoft’s
Copilot Microsoft (2023), Amazon’s CodeWhisperer Amazon (2022), and Google’s Codey Google
(2023). These coding assistants significantly advance human efficiency and yield considerable
commercial benefits. Despite the initial success of LLMs in assisting with line-level coding, they
struggle to tackle more complex coding tasks. This limitation stems from the restricted reasoning
abilities of single LLMs and their lack of capacity for long-context understanding Wang et al. (2024a);
Li et al. (2024a); Wang et al. (2024b).
To handle function-level coding tasks, numerous multiple language agent collaboration (MAC)
systems have been proposed Li et al. (2023); Hong et al. (2023); Chan et al. (2024); Islam et al.
(2024); Yang et al. (2024b); Li et al. (2022b); Osika (2023). These MAC systems function as LLM-
driven agentic workflow. They follow human-designed standardized operating procedures to divide
the complex coding tasks into simpler subtasks within the workflow, allowing each agent to conquer
specific subtasks. These MAC systems significantly advance coding capabilities from line-level to
function-level tasks. However, current MAC systems rely on heuristic designs. These human-crafted
static systems have two inherent limitations: i) their performance is confined to human initialization.
Given the diversity of real-world coding tasks, human design cannot fully address the specific needs
of each task; and ii) they lack the flexibility to adapt to new tasks. This rigidity necessitates that
researchers and developers manually decompose tasks and create prompts. The complexity of this
process inhibits effective human optimization for adapting to new challenges.
1
arXiv:2410.16946v1  [cs.SE]  22 Oct 2024


[PDF PAGE 2]
Preprint.
To address these limitations, we present EvoMAC, a novel self-evolving paradigm for MAC networks.
EvoMAC’s key feature is its ability to iteratively adapt both agents and their connections during
test time for each task. Inspired from the standard neural network training, the core idea of self-
evolution is to obtain text-based environmental feedback by verifying the MAC network’s generation
against a target proxy, then leverage a novel textual back-propagation to update the MAC network.
Following this general paradigm, we specify EvoMAC for software development, which comprises
three essential components: i) an adaptable MAC network-based coding team that generates code
through feed-forward; ii) a specifically designed testing team that creates unit test cases serving as
the target proxy and verifies the generated code in the compiler to produce objective feedback; and
iii) an updating team that uses the textual back-propagation algorithm to update the coding team. By
cycling these three components, the coding team can iteratively evolve and generate codes that are
better aligned with the unit test cases, eventually fulfilling more requirements of the coding task.
Our self-evolving MAC network has the potential to further advance coding capabilities from function-
level to more complex software-level tasks. As it can iteratively address lengthier task requirements
and cater to realistic software development demands. However, existing benchmarks typically focus
on specific individual functions Chen et al. (2021); Austin et al. (2021); Yang et al. (2024a); Khan
et al. (2023) or bug-fixing Jimenez et al. (2023), leaving a significant gap in providing comprehensive
requirements for software development. This gap makes it difficult to fully assess the potential of our
self-evolving MAC network.
To support the development of software-level coding capabilities, we propose rSDE-Bench, a novel
requirement-oriented software development benchmark. It is the first benchmark that features both
complex and diverse software requirements, as well as the automatic evaluation of requirement
correctness. rSDE-Bench involves 53 coding tasks with 616 requirements, covering two typical
software types, Website, and Game, and two requirement difficulty levels, Basic and Advanced. Each
coding task consists of two components: i) multiple requirements that clearly outline measurable
software functionalities, item by item, and ii) paired black-box test cases that automatically verify
the correctness of each requirement. rSDE-Bench can achieve automatic evaluation with these
synchronized pairs of requirements and test cases. The rSDE-Bench introduces new software-level
challenges, including lengthy requirement analysis and long-context coding, which are essential in
real-world software development but are absent in existing benchmarks.
To validate the effectiveness of our proposed EvoMAC and rSDE-Bench, we conduct three key
evaluations. First, we compare our automatic evaluation in rSDE-Bench with human evaluation,
achieving a coherence score of 99.22%, demonstrating its reliability. Second, we compare EvoMAC
against five multi-agent and three single-agent baselines. EvoMAC significantly outperforms previous
SOTAs by 26.48%, 34.78%, and 6.10% on Website Basic, Game Basic, and HumanEval, respectively,
underscoring its effectiveness. Third, we evaluate EvoMAC with varying evolving times and two
different driving LLMs. The results indicate that EvoMAC consistently improves with more evolving
times and shows convincing enhancements regardless of the driving LLM used, further demonstrating
the effectiveness of our self-evolving design.
To sum up, our contributions are:
• We propose EvoMAC, a novel self-evolving MAC network, and apply it to software development.
EvoMAC can iteratively adapt both agents and their connections during test time for each task.
• We propose rSDE-Bench, a novel requirement-oriented software development benchmark. It is
the first benchmark that features both complex and diverse software requirements, as well as the
automatic evaluation of requirement correctness.
• We conduct comprehensive experiments and validate that: automatic evaluation in rSDE-Bench is
highly aligned with human evaluation; EvoMAC outperforms previous SOTAs, and self-evolving
promises continuous improvement with evolving times.
2
RELATED WORKS
LLM-based multi-agent collaboration. LLM-driven multi-agent collaboration (MAC) systems Xu
et al. (2023); Hua et al. (2023); Ziems et al. (2024); Wu et al. (2023); Hong et al. (2023); Chan et al.
(2024); Mandi et al. (2024a) enable multiple agents to share information and collaboratively complete
the overall task. These MAC systems function as agentic workflows. They have demonstrated
enhanced problem-solving capabilities in various domains, such as mathematics Islam et al. (2024),
2


[PDF PAGE 3]
Preprint.
software development Qian et al. (2023); Hong et al. (2023), embodied task Mandi et al. (2024b)
and social simulation Ziems et al. (2024); Pang et al. (2024); Li et al. (2024b). However, these
systems Wu et al. (2023); Chen et al. (2023) heavily rely on manually designed workflows, which
lack generalizability and the labor-intensive nature of manual design poses significant limitations. To
address this issue, we propose a novel self-evolving paradigm, which allows agents to update and
improve through external feedback, enabling dynamic adaptation and more advanced performance
across varied tasks.
Software development benchmarks. Software development benchmarks aim to evaluate models in
the task of generating code from natural language descriptions Zheng et al. (2023). These benchmarks
typically include task definitions and evaluation criteria. Existing benchmarks can be categorized
into three types: i) function completion (HumanEval Chen et al. (2021), MBPP Austin et al. (2021),
EvalPlus Liu et al. (2023), xCodeEval Khan et al. (2023)); ii) bug repair (SWE-bench Jimenez et al.
(2023)); and iii) software generation (SRDD Qian et al. (2023), SoftwareDev Hong et al. (2023)).
Function completion and bug repair benchmarks are confined to function-level task definitions,
missing the diverse realistic software requirements. Software generation benchmarks often depend
on expensive human evaluations or indirect similarity-based measurements, unable to automatically
and accurately verify the requirement correctness. To address these limitations, we introduce rSDE-
Bench, the first benchmark contains both diverse software requirements and automatic evaluation
of requirement correctness. It can support the development of more realistic software-level coding
capabilities.
3
EVOMAC: SELF-EVOLVING MULTI-AGENT COLLABORATION NETWORK
This section presents EvoMAC, a novel self-evolving multi-agent collaboration network and its
application to software development. The key feature of EvoMAC is its ability to iteratively adapt
both agents and their connections during test-time for each task, mimicking the back-propagation
process, a core algorithm in neural network training. We first formulate a general self-evolving
paradigm in Sec. 3.1 and then describe its application to software development in Sec. 3.2.
3.1
A GENERAL SELF-EVOLVING PARADIGM VIA TEXTUAL BACKPROPAGATION
Multi-agent collaboration network. A multi-agent collaboration (MAC) network is a computational
graph representing agentic workflows, where multiple agents empowered by LLMs interact as
interconnected nodes to coordinate and share information for complex task-solving. The intuition
behind to divide the complex task into more specific and manageable subtasks for each agent,
allowing the overall task to be gradually conquered through the agentic workflow. Mathematically, we
represent a MAC network with N autonomous agents as a directed acyclic graph A = (V, E), where
V = {vi}N
i=1 is the set of N nodes, and E = {ei,j}i,j∈[1,...,N],i̸=j is the set of directed edges with no
circles. The i-th node vi represents the i-th autonomous agent with the prompt pi, which specifies
its subtask. The edge ei,j represents the task dependency between the i-th agent and the j-th agent,
indicating that the j-th agent’s subtask should be executed after the i-th agent’s subtask in the agentic
workflow. The overall graph topology specifies the agentic workflow. Analogy to traditional neural
networks, agents function similarly to neurons, with agent prompts serving as neurons’ weights and
the agentic workflow as the layers and connections.
The feed-forward pass of MAC network is the execution of the agentic workflow. In this process,
each agent is given two inputs: the initial task requirement and the output from the previous agent.
Using these, each agent produces an output that fulfills its specific subtask. Eventually, the last
agent’s generation constitutes the final output, integrating all completed subtasks. Note that the initial
task requirement is input to each agent as context, providing supplementary details to aid in the
implementation of each subtask.
Recently, various MAC networks have been designed using human expertise to assign fixed agent
prompts and workflows Hong et al. (2023); Chan et al. (2024), resembling untrained neural networks.
However, these designs solely rely on human priors and lack adaptability, causing limited performance
improvement over a single agent. To overcome this, inspired by neural network training, we propose
a self-evolving paradigm for multi-agent collaboration networks, enabling both agents and their
connections to dynamically evolve during test-time for each given task.
Optimization problem. Here we consider a general generation task. During test-time, given a task,
the MAC network performs a feed-forward pass to generate the final output without knowing its
3


[PDF PAGE 4]
Preprint.
Figure 1: The general self-evolving paradigm.
quality. The key to evolution during test-time is to set up a target proxy for the MAC network to
guide its improvements in the generated output. Here we consider this target proxy as the conditions
for task completion, such as unit tests in coding, and we can produce such a target proxy by another
group of autonomous agents based on the same task description. Then, the quality of each generated
output can be verified according to the target proxy. This approach relies on two key assumptions:
(i) generating a target proxy is significantly simpler than completing the original generation task,
and (ii) the generated output can be correctly verified against the target proxy through an objective
environment. These assumptions are practical in many applications. For example, in code generation,
producing unit tests, the expected input-output pairs, is much easier than generating the entire code;
meanwhile, a code compiler naturally acts as the objective environment to check the correctness of
the generated code against the unit test, providing objective and informative feedback.
Mathematically, let X be the textual description of a task. Given the MAC network Ag, the generated
output is G = Φ(X, Ag), where Φ(·, ·) is the general feed-forward operator that executes the
agentic workflow, processing the input text through the MAC network. Similarly, the target proxy is
T = Φ(X, At), where At is another MAC network designed for producing the target proxy. Note
that we aim to evolve and optimize Ag, while keep At predefined and fixed. The optimization of our
self-evolution is formulated as,
A∗
g = min
Ag ⟨Φ(X, Ag), T⟩E, subject to: T = Φ (X, At) ,
(1)
where ⟨·, ·⟩E is an objective environment executor that receives the generated output and the target
proxy as inputs and outputs a text-based environmental feedback. Akin to the loss function in
traditional neural network training, which quantifies the difference between the generated output and
the ground-truth, the objective in (1) evaluates whether the generated output meets the conditions
of the task completion using the environment, subsequently producing execution reports as the
text-based environmental feedback. Here the minimization operation min is defined to reduce the
failures during execution. With the guidance of the target proxy and the objective feedback given by
the environment, the MAC network can improve its success rate of task completion during test time.
Note that, another straightforward way to enable the MAC network’s evolution is through the self-
critique strategy Zhou et al. (2024); Valmeekam et al. (2023); Xu et al. (2024); Asai et al. (2023),
which employs a critique agent to assess the generated output directly. This approach has two
inherent limitations: i) the critique may be subjective and biased, and ii) the critique agent can have
hallucinations, causing inconsistencies and errors. These limitations can cause the MAC network
to become entrenched in its own preferences or evolve in the wrong direction, especially iterating
multiple times; see our experimental validations in Tab. 2. In comparison, our approach leverages an
environment executor to provide objective feedback, preventing bias and hallucinations.
While we use the analogy between our self-evolution process and neural network training for
motivating, they are significantly different in three key aspects: (i) our self-evolution occurs at test
time without a dedicated training phase; (ii) it evolves for each specific task individually rather than
over a batch of samples; and (iii) the environmental feedback are usually texts, not be numerical
values, which cannot be optimized by the standard backpropagation. This motivates us to propose
our textual backpropagation.
Solution based on textual backpropagation. The self-evolution solution iteratively updates the
MAC network using a textual backpropagation algorithm, guided by the environmental feedback. The
core idea is to analyze the influence of each agent in the MAC network Ag to the final environmental
feedback and use these analyses to update the agent prompts and the agentic workflow in Ag. This
4


[PDF PAGE 5]
Preprint.
Figure 2: EvoMAC takes task requirements as input and iteratively updates the coding team to
generate code that better fulfills the requirements.
is achieved by two collaborative agents, each responsible for one of the two key steps: (i) textual
gradient analysis and (ii) network update. The overall algorithm can refer to Alg. 1 in the appendix.
First, the gradient agent takes the environmental feedback as the input and outputs textual gradients
that describe the impact of each agent in the MAC network. Let A(k)
g
and L(k) be the MAC
network and the environment feedback at the k-th iteration. The textual gradient is then ∇L(k) =
G(A(k)
g , L(k)), where G(·, ·) is the gradient analysis operator managed by the gradient agent; see its
prompt in Appendix. The textual gradient details three-fold information for each agent inside A(k)
g :
1) whether this agent’s subtask is fulfilled; 2) whether this agent introduces errors; and 3) whether
any subtask is missed in the current MAC network.
Second, based on the textual gradients, the updating agent iterates the MAC network as A(k+1)
g
=
U(A(k)
g , ∇L(k)), where U(·, ·) is the updating operator managed by the updating agent. This operator
guides the updates from three-folds: 1) removing the agents whose subtasks have been completed; 2)
revising the erroneous agent’s prompts by adding potential solutions provided in the gradient analysis;
and 3) adding new agents for missing subtasks and restructuring the workflows based on the subtask
dependencies noted in the gradient analysis; see the prompt details in Appendix. These adjustments
address existing issues and fulfill unmet requirements in the current generation of the MAC network,
promising improvements in the updated version.
Note that, the key of the textual backpropagation is the prompt designs for both gradient analysis
and network updates. The design must i) thoroughly evaluate the subtask of each agent in the MAC
network according to the objective environment feedback and determine necessary adjustments to
the MAC network to address existing issues, fulfilling the unmet requirements; and ii) maintain
coherence, ensuring that issues identified by the gradient agent can be effectively resolved by the
updating agent’s modifications to the MAC network.
3.2
SELF-EVOLUTION FOR SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
In this section, we apply the self-evolving paradigm to the task of software development. The
overall architecture of the proposed self-evolving multi-agent collaboration network for software
development is illustrated in Fig. 1. Given a coding task, the coding team, corresponding to the MAC
network Ag, generates all the codes through its forward-pass; the testing team, associated with the
MAC network At, is responsible for creating the target proxy; that is, unit tests of the coding task; and
the objective environment tool is realized through the compiler. The identified bugs during execution
form the textual environmental feedback. The updating team, consisting of two collaborative agents,
manages the textual backpropagation. By continuously cycling through feed-forward, feedback
collection, and textual backpropagation processes, the coding team is iteratively refined to more
closely align with the test cases. The detailed implementation of agents can refer to Sec. 9 in the
Appendix.
5


[PDF PAGE 6]
Preprint.
Since unit test generation is much easier than the original logical code generation, the testing team
usually can produce high-quality test cases, which are closely aligned with the task requirements.
Then, improving alignment with the unit tests through MAC network updates ensures better adherence
to the actual task requirements.
Coding team for feed-forward. In the feed-forward process, the coding team synthesizes code
according to the given coding task. To handle the extensive software requirements, the coding team
is implemented as a MAC network. It divides the comprehensive requirements into a sequence of
smaller, more specific function implementation subtasks, and progressively conquers them through
the agentic workflow. Unlike existing MAC systems that heuristically decompose coding tasks and
define the agentic workflow, we initialize the MAC network using a novel self-organizing approach.
A coding organizer agent automatically and flexibly decomposes the task requirements into subtasks
and assembles the coding agent team accordingly. The number of coding agents is dynamic, adjusting
in response to the task requirements. Note that, the quality of the generated code is unknown during
the forward pass, which necessitates the self-evolving paradigm to iteratively refine the generation.
Testing team and compiler for feedback collection. To verify whether the generated code meets
the requirements of the coding task, we employ unit tests as the target proxy. These test cases consist
of input-output pairs tailored to specific requirements. For example, a test case for a keyboard control
requirement would detail the type of control as the input and describe the expected behavior as the
output. To create flexible and comprehensive unit tests, we set up the testing team as a MAC network
and also initialize it in a self-organized way. A testing organizer agent automatically decomposes our
specified key testing criteria into subtasks and accordingly forms the testing agent team .
Once the test cases and generated code are ready, they are executed in the compiler, which functions
as the environmental tool, producing execution logs. These logs clearly point out the gap between the
generated code and the test cases. It shows satisfied testing requirements, existing function errors, and
unmet testing requirements. This feedback information can be used to verify whether each agent’s
subtask is accomplished and guide the MAC network update.
Updating team for textual back-propagation. The updating team consists of two collaborative
agents: the gradient agent and the updating agent, adjusting the MAC network based on the execution
logs, including the agent prompts and workflows. This process consists of two steps. First, the
gradient agent summarizes the textual gradient by identifying accomplished subtasks for satisfied
requirements, appending new subtasks for unmet requirements, and analyzing errors to detail their
originating agents and revising suggestions. Second, the updating agent modifies the coding agent
team by removing agents that have completed their subtasks, adding new agents for the new subtasks,
and revising agent prompts to address issues identified in the previous generation. The agent workflow
is updated once the agent team is revised, based on the dependencies among the subtasks.
4
RSDE-BENCH: REQUIREMENT-ORIENTED SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
ENGINEERING BENCHMARK
This section introduces rSDE-Bench, a requirement-oriented benchmark designed to assess the
ability of models to handle software-level coding tasks. Each coding task involves multiple detailed
software requirements. These requirements specify each functionality and constraint of the software,
item by item, serving as measurable benchmarks for assessing the software’s effectiveness. As shown
in Fig. 3, unlike previous instruction-oriented approaches Qian et al. (2023); Hong et al. (2023) which
rely on brief instructions as input, rSDE-Bench uses comprehensive software requirements as input,
complemented by unit test cases to automatically evaluate the correctness. This benchmark provides
software-level coding tasks and automatic evaluation, aligning more closely with real-world software
development practices.
4.1
BENCHMARK CONSTRUCTION
rSDE-Bench involves two typical real-world software types: game and website. They can reflect
different coding capacities demanded in realistic software development. Game often requires handling
dynamic interactions, real-time state changes, and user-driven operations, focusing on elements like
logic execution, initialization, and game state transitions. Website emphasizes static and dynamic
content management, user interaction through forms and buttons, and ensuring page elements are
displayed and functional. rSDE-Bench involves diverse requirements, each paired with a test case.
Specifically, rSDE-Bench provides 53 unique coding tasks and 616 test cases. For details on the
6


[PDF PAGE 7]
Preprint.
Cosine Similarity
Consistency: 0.89
Software Requirement 
Language
Data Storage
Objective
Develop a website (DailyHeealthTips)
Generated Codes
app.py
@app.route('/login', methods=['POST’])
def login_page():
    # Implement the login logic here.
    return render_template('login.html')
templates/login.html
(Additional code omitted)
PASSED  test_login_elements
FAILED test_login_functionality
{'advanced’: 0,
'basic’: 2,
'total’: 13}
Accuracy (Ours): 2 / 13
Additional Pass to Test cases omitted...
----------------------------
Test Reports (RSD-Bench)
1 Completeness: 11
Do not find (`pass`/`TODO`)
Check for executability
1 Executability : 11
---------------------
Quality = 0.89*1*1= 0.89
Software Instruction
A website called 
DailyHeealthTips where 
users receive daily health 
tips, log in to their accounts, 
view tips, and submit 
feedback, with all data 
stored in local text files. The 
website also offers 
personalized health advice 
based on user profiles.
• Elements:
• Username Filed’s ID: username_field
• Password Filed’s ID: password_filed
Page Design
Login Page
User Data: Stored in users.txt
•
Example: john_doe,securepassword
<form action="{{ url_for('login') }}"
method="post">
  <div class="form-group">
  ···
    </div>
Software
Requirement Codes
Daily Tips Page
Tips Archive Page
Evaluation Metrics
Figure 3: Comparison between instruction-oriented and requirement-oriented evaluations. rSDE-
Bench accurately reflects requirement fulfillment with the proposed accuracy score of 2/13, while
the indrection evaluation misjudges with high scores (0.89), failing to detect missing functionality.
benchmark construction, software statistics, software requirements, and test case examples, see Sec. 7
in the Appendix.
rSDE-Bench introduces two requirement difficulty levels, including basic and advanced, to reflect the
varying complexity of real-world software development tasks. The basics reflect the fundamental and
more achievable requirements, such as interaction, control, and logging. The advanced reflects more
complex software functionalities, such as game logical rules, and dynamic web content management.
The details can be referred to the appendix.
4.2
AUTOMATIC EVALUATION
rSDE-Bench supports automatic evaluation of requirement correctness. It achieves this by pairing a
specifically designed black-box test case with each requirement. The test case can directly verify
whether the generated code achieved the requirement. Its evaluation metric is the accuracy, which
quantifies the proportion of correctly passed test cases. It is similar to the pass@1 metric in
HumanEval Chen et al. (2021), which evaluates the pass ratio of correctly achieved functions against
the total functions via unit test verification. It is a fully automated evaluation process, eliminating the
need for human involvement while still providing accurate and reliable assessments.
Previous benchmarks for software code generation mainly rely on two evaluation methods. One
method is human evaluation Hong et al. (2023), which is time-consuming and not scalable for large
datasets. The other method is indirect evaluations Qian et al. (2023), which defines metrics like
consistency, completeness, and quality. Consistency measures how closely the generated software
aligns with the original requirement description by comparing the cosine similarity between the
two. Completeness is determined by detecting the presence of placeholder (such as pass or TODO),
which results in a binary value of 0 or 1. Quality is then calculated as the product of several
factors: consistency, completeness, and executability. As illustrated in Fig. 3, they could not measure
the correctness of the generated code in fulfilling requirements. In contrast, rSDE-Bench’s test
cases-based evaluation is more rigorous and precise. These test cases can accurately verify the
correctness of generated code in fulfilling the requirements. rSDE-Bench promises reliable and
scalable automatic evaluation. In the experiments, we have validated the significant advantages of
the proposed automatic evaluation over the previous metrics, including consistency and quality; see
Fig. 4.
4.3
FEATURES
Challenging and diverse software requirements. rSDE-Bench features long-context software
requirements (averaging 507/1011 words for game and website tasks, respectively), unlike instruction-
oriented benchmarks Chen et al. (2021); Austin et al. (2021); Jimenez et al. (2023) that rely on
brief prompts. These detailed requirements better reflect real-world lengthy and complex software
development challenges.
Requirement-aware precise and efficient evaluation. rSDE-Bench employs detailed software
requirements and automated unit tests to precisely measure how well generated software meets
its objectives. Generated codes are evaluated based on pass rates from running specific test cases,
offering an accurate and efficient process. In contrast, instruction-oriented benchmarks rely on brief
7


[PDF PAGE 8]
Preprint.
Figure 4: Performance of four methods in terms of four evaluation metrics, including human
evaluation, our automatic evaluation (accuracy), consistency, and quality. WB/GB and WA/GA
represent Web/Game Basic and Web/Game Advanced respectively. Our accuracy metric is highly
aligned with human evaluation across four dataset settings.
Table 1: Comparison of EvoMAC with five multi-agent and three single-agent SOTA baselines, all
powered by GPT-4o-Mini. Red values represent the percentage improvement of EvoMAC, shade in
pink, over the single-agent baselines, shade in grey.
rSDE-Bench
HumanEval
(%)
Website(%)
Game(%)
Method
Model
Basic
Advanced
Basic
Advanced
Pass@1
Gemini-1.5-Flash
29.79±1.00
11.61±2.34
21.74±6.39
6.45±6.97
73.17
Claude-3.5-Sonnet
58.90±1.48
37.11±1.06
44.20±5.41
18.29±13.26
89.02
Single-Agent
GPT-4o-Mini
62.90±2.52
44.40±4.21
42.76±15.50
30.10±11.87
88.41
MetaGPT
15.41±0.00
0.00±0.00
16.67±2.71
0.00±0.00
88.41
Autogen
25.68±4.14
5.40±3.34
17.39±1.78
0.00±0.00
85.36
MapCoder
34.70±1.59
14.57±0.66
29.71±6.72
7.52±6.10
90.85
Agentverse
15.41±0.00
0.00±0.00
37.67±8.20
16.13±4.55
90.85
Multi-Agent
ChatDev
62.67±0.28
43.45±0.77
53.63±5.70
32.26±4.55
70.73
89.38±1.01
65.05±1.56
77.54±2.04
51.60±4.54
94.51
EvoMAC
+26.48
+20.65
+34.78
+21.50
+6.10
prompts, which lack constraints and make evaluation less reliable, often requiring labor-intensive or
indirect evaluation.
5
EXPERIMENTS
5.1
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
Baselines. To validate the effectiveness of our EvoMAC, we conducted comparisons against both
single-agent and multi-agent baselines. The single-agent baselines involve three prominent large
models: GPT-4o-Mini (gpt-4o-mini), Claude-3.5-Sonnet (claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620), and Gemini
(gemini-1.5-flash). For multi-agent baselines, we included five state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods:
MetaGPT Hong et al. (2023), Autogen Wu et al. (2023), Mapcoder Islam et al. (2024), Agent-
verse Chen et al. (2023), and ChatDev Qian et al. (2023). To ensure a fair comparison, all multi-agent
baselines, including our EvoMAC, are powered by the efficient and powerful GPT-4o-Mini model.
Additionally, to demonstrate the adaptability and robustness of our EvoMAC, we developed two
EvoMAC variants using GPT-4o-Mini and Claude-3.5-Sonnet.
Datasets. Our experiments cover both the proposed rSDE-Bench and the standard coding benchmark
HumanEval Chen et al. (2021). HumanEval comprises 164 Python function completion problems,
where the task is to generate code from a single function description.
5.2
EFFECTIVENESS OF RSDE-BENCH’S EVALUATION AND EVOMAC
rSDE-Bench’s automatic evaluation metric (accuracy) is highly aligned with human evaluation.
Our primary goal is to validate the effectiveness of the proposed automatic evaluation in rSDE-Bench
by comparing it with two existing evaluation metrics: consistency and quality, both from SRDD Qian
et al. (2023). For a fair comparison, our golden standard is human evaluation, conducted by two
expert code engineers who manually verify the fulfillment of requirements by interacting with the
developed software. This process is tedious, taking around four hours per expert to evaluate the entire
benchmark. The effectiveness of an evaluation metric depends on how closely it aligns with human
evaluation.
Fig. 4 presents the performance of four methods in terms of four evaluation metrics, including human
evaluation, our automatic evaluation, consistency, and quality. We see that: i) our automatic evaluation
is highly aligned with human evaluation across two software types (Website and Game), four methods,
(GPT-4o-Mini, MetaGPT, ChatDev, and our EvoMAC), and two requirement difficulties (Basic and
8


[PDF PAGE 9]
Preprint.
Advanced). The correlation coefficient between human evaluation and our accuracy metric is 0.9922,
demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed automatic evaluation in rSDE-Bench; ii) Consistency
and quality metrics differ significantly from human evaluation, with correlation coefficients of 0.2583
and 0.3041, respectively. This discrepancy occurs because consistency in SRDD measures similarity,
and quality in SRDD focuses on executability, which does not guarantee that all requirements
are met. This highlights the need for rSDE-Bench, as the SRDD benchmark does not support
requirement-oriented software development.
EvoMAC outperforms previous SOTAs on both software-level and function-level coding bench-
marks: rSDE-Bench and HumanEval. Tab. 1 compares EvoMAC with five multi-agent and
three single-agent SOTA baselines, all powered by GPT-4o-Mini for a fair comparison. We see
that EvoMAC significantly outperforms previous SOTAs across all datasets. EvoMAC outperforms
single-agent methods by 26.48% on the rSDE-Bench Website Basic and 34.78% on the rSDE-Bench
Game Basic, as well as surpassing existing multi-agent methods by over 20%. This highlights the
effectiveness of multi-agent collaboration and the power of EvoMAC.
5.3
EFFECTIVENESS OF EVOLVING
Fig. 6 shows the accuracy of EvoMAC over multiple evolving iterations on the rSDE-Bench and
HumanEval. Each figure presents two curves: one for EvoMAC powered by GPT-4o-Mini (red) and
the other by Claude-3.5 (blue). We have the following findings:
Table 2: Ablation study about coding/testing team with
single/multi-agent, with/without evolving, and with/without
environment tool. Best performances are bolded.
Coding Testing Evol. Env.
Website(%)
Game(%)
Basic Advanced Basic Advanced
a)
Single
-
-
-
63.70
41.70
42.76
30.10
b)
Multi
-
-
-
67.47
39.27
68.10
41.93
c)
Single
Single
✓
✓
80.82
60.32
71.73
41.93
d)
Multi
Single
✓
✓
83.90
60.72
76.08
41.93
e)
Single
Multi
✓
✓
83.56
61.94
73.91
45.16
f)
Multi
Multi
✓
-
78.08
52.23
55.80
33.32
g)
Multi
Multi
✓
✓
90.75
67.20
77.54
51.60
0
1
2
3
4
5
Evolving Times
0
50
100
150
200
250
Count
Website
Page Display
Browsing
Content Manage
Community
User Manage
0
1
2
3
Evolving Times
0
20
40
60
80
Count
Game
Logic
Operation
Initialization
Log
Syntax
Figure 5: Failure case distribution across
evolving times on Website and Game.
EvoMAC continuously improves with the evolving times. Fig. 6 shows that as evolving iterations
increase, performance consistently improves across all five dataset settings, covering two difficulty
levels, two software types, and both requirement-oriented and function complement benchmarks.
This highlights the effectiveness, generalizability, and robustness of the self-evolving approach,
encouraging EvoMAC to evolve whenever possible.
EvoMAC indistinguishably improves with different driving LLM. From Fig. 6, we see that: i)
both EvoMAC variants continuously improve with evolving iterations, demonstrating the robustness
of the self-evolving design; ii) the two curves do not intersect, indicating that the EvoMAC variant
powered by a more powerful single model consistently outperforms the other, highlighting the
advantage of using a stronger model. Success builds on success.
Failure case analysis. Fig. 5 shows the failure case statistics across iterations for Website and Game,
showing a general decrease in errors as iterations progress. We see that: i) the most common errors
are page display issues in Website and logic errors in Game; ii) page errors are resolved more quickly,
while logic errors persist, suggesting that more isolated issues are easier to fix during the evolution
process. This results in a sharp initial performance improvement as sipler problems are addressed
early, followed by a plateau as more complex issues remain unresolved, shown in Fig. 6.
5.4
ABLATION STUDY
To assess the effectiveness of each component, Tab. 2 details an ablation study featuring seven
EvoMAC variants.
Effectiveness of objective environment feedback. Environment feedback, such as code execution
logs, is essential for software development. Variant f) omits this tool, instead using an LLM-driven
agent to critique the code. Comparing Variant g) with Variant f) shows a notable performance drop:
Website tasks decrease by 12.67% and 14.97%, and Game tasks by 21.74% and 18.28% for Basic and
9


[PDF PAGE 10]
Preprint.
(a) Website
(b) Game
(c) HumanEval
Figure 6: Effect of EvoMAC performance across evolving times empowered by GPT-4o-Mini
and Claude-3.5-Sonnet on Website, Game, and HumanEval datasets. The figure shows EvoMAC
continuously improves with the evolving times on both LLM drives.
Figure 7: EvoMAC outperforms previous multi-agent and single-agent systems across all the context
lengths across the four dataset settings on rSDE-Bench.
Figure 8: We show the generated code of single-agent, GPT-4o-Mini, and multi-agent systems,
ChatDev, and our EvoMAC (iteration =0/1) given the Website task (RecipeHub). After evolving,
EvoMAC can revise previous issues and fulfill the task requirement.
Advanced levels, respectively. This underscores the importance of objective environmental feedback,
as agent-driven critiques may introduce bias and fail to guide the evolution effectively.
Effectiveness of multi-agent collaboration in coding team and testing team. Comparing Variant
g) to Variant e), we observe a performance decrease of 7.19% and 5.26% on Website Basic and
Advanced respectively, when the coding team is reduced to a single agent. Similarly, comparing
Variant g) to Variant d), there is a performance drop of 6.85% and 6.48% on Website Basic and
Advanced respectively, also when the team is reduced to a single agent. These results demonstrate
the necessary for involving multi-agent collaboration, highlighting that multi-agent setups offer more
flexible adjustments and enhanced capabilities for evolution.
Effectiveness in handling varied task token lengths. Fig. 7 shows a comparison of task token
lengths and performance across GPT-4o-Mini, ChatDev, and EvoMAC. We see that: i) EvoMAC
consistently outperforms ChatDev and GPT-4o-Mini across all context lengths, with its self-evolving
mechanism enabling the identification and correction of missed contexts and errors during iterations;
ii) EvoMAC experiences less performance degradation on the rSDE-Bench Website than on the
Game, as Website tasks are more modular and can be broken into subtasks, whereas Game tasks
require more coordinated management, making them more challenging.
10


[PDF PAGE 11]
Preprint.
5.5
CASE STUDY
Fig. 8 presents the generated code by a single agent, GPT-4o-Mini, multi-agent systems, ChatDev, and
our EvoMAC before and after evolving (iteration=0/1). We see that: i) EvoMAC after evolving can
correct issues from previous iterations and successfully fulfill the task requirements; ii) multi-agent
systems tend to better comprehend the task requirements and produce more well-structured code.
More generated software can refer to Sec. 10 in the Appendix.
6
CONCLUSION
We propose EvoMAC, a novel self-evolving paradigm for MAC networks. EvoMAC iteratively
adapts agents and their connections during the testing phase of each task. It achieves this with a novel
textual back-propagation algorithm. EvoMAC can push coding capabilities beyond function-level
tasks and into more complex, software-level development. Furthermore, we propose rSDE-Bench, a
novel requirement-oriented software development benchmark. rSDE-Bench features both complex
and diverse software requirements, as well as the automatic evaluation of requirement correctness.
Comprehensive experiments validate that the automatic requirement-aware evaluation in rSDE-Bench
aligns closely with human evaluation. EvoMAC outperforms previous SOTAs in both software-level
rSDE-Bench and function-level HumanEval benchmarks.
Future works. In the future, we plan to introduce a reward model to enhance the self-evolving
paradigm’s ability to learn from feedback and extend the rSDE-Bench to more software types.
REFERENCES
Amazon.
CodeWhisperer.
In
https://platform.qa.com/course/amazon-codewhisperer-generating-
code-ai-4679/introduction,
2022.
URL
https://platform.qa.com/course/
amazon-codewhisperer-generating-code-ai-4679/introduction.
Akari Asai, Zeqiu Wu, Yizhong Wang, Avirup Sil, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. Self-rag: Learning to retrieve,
generate, and critique through self-reflection. ArXiv, abs/2310.11511, 2023.
Jacob Austin, Augustus Odena, Maxwell Nye, Maarten Bosma, Henryk Michalewski, David Dohan, Ellen Jiang,
Carrie Cai, Michael Terry, Quoc Le, et al. Program synthesis with large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2108.07732, 2021.
Chi-Min Chan, Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Jianxuan Yu, Wei Xue, Shanghang Zhang, Jie Fu, and Zhiyuan Liu.
Chateval: Towards better llm-based evaluators through multi-agent debate. In The Twelfth International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2024.
Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Jared Kaplan, Harri
Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph, Greg Brockman, Alex Ray, Raul Puri, Gretchen Krueger, Michael
Petrov, Heidy Khlaaf, Girish Sastry, Pamela Mishkin, Brooke Chan, Scott Gray, Nick Ryder, Mikhail Pavlov,
Alethea Power, Lukasz Kaiser, Mohammad Bavarian, Clemens Winter, Philippe Tillet, Felipe Petroski Such,
Dave Cummings, Matthias Plappert, Fotios Chantzis, Elizabeth Barnes, Ariel Herbert-Voss, William Hebgen
Guss, Alex Nichol, Alex Paino, Nikolas Tezak, Jie Tang, Igor Babuschkin, Suchir Balaji, Shantanu Jain,
William Saunders, Christopher Hesse, Andrew N. Carr, Jan Leike, Josh Achiam, Vedant Misra, Evan
Morikawa, Alec Radford, Matthew Knight, Miles Brundage, Mira Murati, Katie Mayer, Peter Welinder, Bob
McGrew, Dario Amodei, Sam McCandlish, Ilya Sutskever, and Wojciech Zaremba. Evaluating large language
models trained on code. 2021.
Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Jingwei Zuo, Cheng Yang, Chenfei Yuan, Chen Qian, Chi-Min Chan, Yujia Qin, Yaxi
Lu, Ruobing Xie, et al. Agentverse: Facilitating multi-agent collaboration and exploring emergent behaviors
in agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.10848, 2(4):6, 2023.
Google. Codey. In https://console.cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/publishers/google/model-garden/codechat-bison,
2023.
URL https://console.cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/publishers/google/
model-garden/codechat-bison.
Sirui Hong, Xiawu Zheng, Jonathan Chen, Yuheng Cheng, Jinlin Wang, Ceyao Zhang, Zili Wang, Steven
Ka Shing Yau, Zijuan Lin, Liyang Zhou, et al. Metagpt: Meta programming for multi-agent collaborative
framework. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.00352, 2023.
Wenyue Hua, Lizhou Fan, Lingyao Li, Kai Mei, Jianchao Ji, Yingqiang Ge, Libby Hemphill, and Yongfeng
Zhang. War and peace (waragent): Large language model-based multi-agent simulation of world wars. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2311.17227, 2023.
11


[PDF PAGE 12]
Preprint.
Md. Ashraful Islam, Mohammed Eunus Ali, and Md Rizwan Parvez. Mapcoder: Multi-agent code generation
for competitive problem solving, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.11403.
Carlos E Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik R Narasimhan.
Swe-bench: Can language models resolve real-world github issues? In The Twelfth International Conference
on Learning Representations, 2023.
Mohammad Abdullah Matin Khan, M Saiful Bari, Xuan Long Do, Weishi Wang, Md Rizwan Parvez, and
Shafiq Joty. xcodeeval: A large scale multilingual multitask benchmark for code understanding, generation,
translation and retrieval, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.03004.
Guohao Li, Hasan Abed Al Kader Hammoud, Hani Itani, Dmitrii Khizbullin, and Bernard Ghanem. Camel:
Communicative agents for "mind" exploration of large language model society. In Thirty-seventh Conference
on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2023.
Jiaqi Li, Mengmeng Wang, Zilong Zheng, and Muhan Zhang. Loogle: Can long-context language models
understand long contexts?, 2024a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04939.
Junkai Li, Siyu Wang, Meng Zhang, Weitao Li, Yunghwei Lai, Xinhui Kang, Weizhi Ma, and Yang Liu. Agent
hospital: A simulacrum of hospital with evolvable medical agents, 2024b. URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2405.02957.
Yujia Li, David Choi, Junyoung Chung, Nate Kushman, Julian Schrittwieser, Rémi Leblond, Tom, Eccles, James
Keeling, Felix Gimeno, Agustin Dal Lago, Thomas Hubert, Peter Choy, Cyprien de, Masson d’Autume,
Igor Babuschkin, Xinyun Chen, Po-Sen Huang, Johannes Welbl, Sven Gowal, Alexey, Cherepanov, James
Molloy, Daniel Jaymin Mankowitz, Esme Sutherland Robson, Pushmeet Kohli, Nando de, Freitas, Koray
Kavukcuoglu, and Oriol Vinyals. Competition-level code generation with alphacode. Science, 378:1092 –
1097, 2022a.
Yujia Li, David Choi, Junyoung Chung, Nate Kushman, Julian Schrittwieser, Rémi Leblond, Tom Eccles, James
Keeling, Felix Gimeno, Agustin Dal Lago, Thomas Hubert, Peter Choy, Cyprien de Masson d’Autume, Igor
Babuschkin, Xinyun Chen, Po-Sen Huang, Johannes Welbl, Sven Gowal, Alexey Cherepanov, James Molloy,
Daniel J. Mankowitz, Esme Sutherland Robson, Pushmeet Kohli, Nando de Freitas, Koray Kavukcuoglu,
and Oriol Vinyals. Competition-level code generation with alphacode. Science, 378(6624):1092–1097,
December 2022b. ISSN 1095-9203. doi: 10.1126/science.abq1158. URL http://dx.doi.org/10.
1126/science.abq1158.
Jiawei Liu, Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yuyao Wang, and LINGMING ZHANG. Is your code generated by chatGPT
really correct? rigorous evaluation of large language models for code generation. In Thirty-seventh Conference
on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2023. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=
1qvx610Cu7.
Zhao Mandi, Shreeya Jain, and Shuran Song. Roco: Dialectic multi-robot collaboration with large language
models. In 2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 286–299. IEEE,
2024a.
Zhao Mandi, Shreeya Jain, and Shuran Song. Roco: Dialectic multi-robot collaboration with large language
models. In 2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 286–299. IEEE,
2024b.
Microsoft. Copilot. In https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-copilot/meet-copilot, 2023. URL https:
//www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-copilot/meet-copilot.
Anton Osika. GPT-Engineer. In https://github.com/AntonOsika/gpt-engineer, 2023. URL https://github.
com/AntonOsika/gpt-engineer.
Xianghe Pang, Shuo Tang, Rui Ye, Yuxin Xiong, Bolun Zhang, Yanfeng Wang, and Siheng Chen. Self-alignment
of large language models via monopolylogue-based social scene simulation. In Forty-first International
Conference on Machine Learning, 2024.
Chen Qian, Wei Liu, Hongzhang Liu, Nuo Chen, Yufan Dang, Jiahao Li, Cheng Yang, Weize Chen, Yusheng Su,
Xin Cong, Juyuan Xu, Dahai Li, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun. Chatdev: Communicative agents for software
development. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.07924, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.07924.
Karthik Valmeekam, Matthew Marquez, and Subbarao Kambhampati. Can large language models really improve
by self-critiquing their own plans? ArXiv, abs/2310.08118, 2023.
Chonghua Wang, Haodong Duan, Songyang Zhang, Dahua Lin, and Kai Chen. Ada-leval: Evaluating long-
context llms with length-adaptable benchmarks, 2024a.
12


[PDF PAGE 13]
Preprint.
Xindi Wang, Mahsa Salmani, Parsa Omidi, Xiangyu Ren, Mehdi Rezagholizadeh, and Armaghan Eshaghi.
Beyond the limits: A survey of techniques to extend the context length in large language models, 2024b. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.02244.
Qingyun Wu, Gagan Bansal, Jieyu Zhang, Yiran Wu, Beibin Li, Erkang Zhu, Li Jiang, Xiaoyun Zhang, Shaokun
Zhang, Jiale Liu, Ahmed Hassan Awadallah, Ryen W White, Doug Burger, and Chi Wang. Autogen: Enabling
next-gen llm applications via multi-agent conversation, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.
08155.
Yifan Xu, Xiao Liu, Xinghan Liu, Zhenyu Hou, Yueyan Li, Xiaohan Zhang, Zihan Wang, Aohan Zeng,
Zhengxiao Du, Wenyi Zhao, Jie Tang, and Yuxiao Dong. Chatglm-math: Improving math problem-solving in
large language models with a self-critique pipeline. ArXiv, 2024.
Yuzhuang Xu, Shuo Wang, Peng Li, Fuwen Luo, Xiaolong Wang, Weidong Liu, and Yang Liu. Explor-
ing large language models for communication games: An empirical study on werewolf. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.04658, 2023.
Guang Yang, Yu Zhou, Xiang Chen, and Xiangyu Zhang. Codescore-r: An automated robustness metric for
assessing the functionalcorrectness of code synthesis, 2024a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.
06902.
John Yang, Carlos E. Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan, and Ofir
Press. Swe-agent: Agent-computer interfaces enable automated software engineering. ArXiv, abs/2405.15793,
2024b.
Zibin Zheng, Kai-Chun Ning, Jiachi Chen, Yanlin Wang, Wenqing Chen, Lianghong Guo, and Weicheng Wang.
Towards an understanding of large language models in software engineering tasks. ArXiv, abs/2308.11396,
2023.
Wangchunshu Zhou, Yixin Ou, Shengwei Ding, Long Li, Jialong Wu, Tiannan Wang, Jiamin Chen, Shuai
Wang, Xiaohua Xu, Ningyu Zhang, et al. Symbolic learning enables self-evolving agents. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.18532, 2024.
Caleb Ziems, William Held, Omar Shaikh, Jiaao Chen, Zhehao Zhang, and Diyi Yang. Can large language
models transform computational social science? Computational Linguistics, 50(1):237–291, 2024.
13


[PDF PAGE 14]
Preprint.
APPENDIX
7
BENCHMARK DETAILS
Table 3: Basic statistics for website and game do-
mains, including the amount of samples, length
in lines of code (Basic/Advanced), and number of
test cases at both Basic and Advanced levels.
Benchmark
Software
Test Case
Amount
Length
Basic
Advanced
Website
45
1011/1553
292
247
Game
8
507/788
46
31
Logic
42.9
Operation
35.1
Log
7.8
Executability
7.8
Initialization
6.5
Game Category (%)
Page Display
46.3
User
Manage
17.5
Browsing
14.9
Content Manage
8.0
Set Up
8.4
Community
4.9
Website Category (%)
Figure 9: Statistics of Game and Website tasks.
Step 1: Software requirement generation. Each task instance begins with the generation of
clear, measurable software requirements. Given the inherent differences across various types of
software, we adopt distinct approaches for their formulation. For game-related software, we focuses
on common real-world games, capturing detailed task requirements such as GUI layout initialization,
interaction methods, and game rules. To align more closely with actual game development practices,
we also include game state logging as part of the software requirements. Due to the complexity
of logic in game software, these requirements are manually crafted by human. In contrast, for
website-related software, we begin with a concise website name, and then leverage the large language
model (gpt-4o-mini) to enrich the requirements according to predefined patterns. This approach
ensures both efficiency and scalability in the creation of benchmarks for websites. By tailoring the
process to the distinct characteristics of each software domain, we maintain precision in requirement
formulation while addressing the unique challenges posed by each context.
Step 2: Requirement-based test cases generation.
As illustrated in Fig 10 and Fig 11, unit tests offer a precise evaluation of software completion. Each
task instance includes black-box unit test cases that correspond directly to the software requirements,
allowing for a quantitative assessment of requirement fulfillment. To further assess the model’s code
generation capabilities, we categorize test cases into two levels of difficulty—basic and advanced,
as outlined in Tab. 3. We also provide an overview of all websites and games in Tab. 4 and
Tab. 5 respectively. As shown in Fig. 9, test cases for website and game software exhibit structural
differences, reflecting the distinct nature of each software type. They enable more targeted evaluation
of code generation capabilities. Thus, similar to software requirements, the test cases are constructed
differently based on the software type. For game-related tests, we manually create test cases,
akin to the HumanEval Chen et al. (2021) benchmark, which tracks state changes in response to
specific inputs. In the game environment, we assess how game states evolve in response to GUI
interactions. For website-related tests, large language model (gpt-4o-mini) generates Selenium-
based test cases aligned with the software requirements, followed by manual corrections to resolve any
ambiguities. This structured approach ensures rigorous evaluation across diverse software domains.
Basic and advanced requirements definition. For the games, basic requirements involve straightfor-
ward user interactions that do not require complex logic, such as character movement or interacting
with simple GUI elements. Advanced requirements incorporate more intricate logic, such as manag-
ing game state transitions based on user actions or handling conditional game events. These cases
focus on ensuring the correct execution of basic actions. In contrast, advanced cases incorporate
more intricate logic, such as managing game state transitions based on user actions or handling
conditional game events. These cases challenge the model’s ability to generate code that integrates
dynamic decision-making and interaction within the game environment. For websites, basic cases
focus on ensuring that the necessary page elements—such as input fields, buttons, and layouts—are
present correctly. These cases assess the completeness of the webpage’s structure. On the other hand,
advanced cases evaluate more complex functionality, such as handling user authentication, managing
dynamic content, or executing specific operations within a content management system. These cases
require the model to generate code that performs backend logic and manages user interactions at a
deeper level.
14


[PDF PAGE 15]
Preprint.
Table 4: Overview of Websites in rSDE-Bench.
Websites
CharitableGivingPlatform
DailyHealthTips
DailyJournalApp
EcoFriendlyLivingTips
ElderCareResources
EventPlanner
FitnessEquipmentRental
FitnessTracker
FreelancerMarketplace
GreenLivingGuide
HealthConsultationPlatform
MotivationalQuotesApp
MusicFestivalDirectory
NoteTakingApp
NutritionInformationHub
OnlineLibraryManagementSystem
OnlineTherapeuticJournaling
OnlineThriftStore
PeerTutoringNetwork
PersonalBlog
PersonalFinanceBlog
RecipeHub
RemoteInternshipMarketplace
RemoteJobBoard
TravelDiary
VirtualBookPublishing
VirtualWellnessRetreats
DigitalArtworkGallery
DigitalStorytellingPlatform
ExpenseTracker
FitnessChallenges
GardeningForBeginners
GourmetFoodSubscription
MovieRecommendationSystem
MusicCollaborator
OnlineCulturalExchange
OnlineCulturalFestivals
OnlineVintageMarket
ParentingAdviceForum
PetCareCommunity
PortfolioSite
SkillShare
TaskManager
VolunteerMatch
OnlineShoppingCenter
Table 5: Overview of Games in rSDE-Bench.
Games
Balls
Tank
Racing
Ghostly
Mario
Bomberman
Sokoban
Brick
Task: Develop a simple Sokoban game. You must design a GUI.
Requirements:
1. The game board should be divided into grid squares.
2. Players will control the game using the arrow keys on the keyboard.
3. As the game starts, a log file named 'game.log' should be created to record the game's progress. The content of the 
game.log file should be appended with a new entry after each player action.The content of the game.log file should be 
cleared (if any) at the start of each game session.
Each log entry should follow this format:
{
"timestamp": timestamp,
"EVENT_TYPE": "MOVE_RIGHT" | "MOVE_LEFT" | "MOVE_UP" | "MOVE_DOWN" | "INVALID_MOVE",
"player_position": [x, y],
"box_positions": [[x1, y1], [x2, y2], ...],
"game_status": "ONGOING" | "COMPLETE"
}
4. The victory conditions for the game is: All boxes are pushed onto their corresponding coordinate point.
5. The initial positions of each element are required as follows:
player_position = [1, 1]
box_positions = [[3, 3], [4, 2]]
goal_positions = [[5, 5], [6, 3]]
([3, 3] is the initial position of the first box whose target position is [5, 5]. [4, 2] is the initial position of 
the second box whose target position is [6, 3].)
wall_positions = [[0, 4], [1, 4], [2, 4],[3, 4],[4, 4]]
(the first numnber in each pair is the x-coordinate and the second number is the y-coordinate)
check_Excutablity
check_log
check_move_right
check_move_left
check_move_box
check_move_wall
check_seqbox
check_end
check_wrong_end
Software description
Evaluation functions
Figure 10: Test cases of Game in rSDE-Bench.
8
ALGORITHM
In this section, we present the algorithm of EvoMAC in Alg. 1. For more details, please refer to
Section 3.
15


[PDF PAGE 16]
Preprint.
# Requirement Document for DailyHealthTips Web Application
## 1. Objective
Develop a web application named 'DailyHealthTips' that provides users with daily health tips, allowing them to receive 
advice and information about maintaining a healthy lifestyle, using Python as the development language. Note that the 
website should start from the login page.
## 2. Language
The required development language for the DailyHealthTips web application is Python.
## 3. Page Design
### Page 1: Login Page
- **Page Title**: User Login
- **Overview**: This page allows users to log in to their accounts.
- **Elements**:
- **Username Field**: 
- **ID**: `username_field`
- **Password Field**: 
- **ID**: `password_field`
- **Login Button**: 
- **ID**: `login_button`
…………
test_login_page_elements  test_login_page_functionality  test_daily_tips_page_elements  
test_daily_tips_page_functionality  test_tips_archive_page_elements  test_tips_archive_page_functionality
Software description
Evaluation functions
Figure 11: Test cases of Website in rSDE-Bench.
Algorithm 1 Self-Evolving Paradigm
Require: X
▷Task input
Require: A(0)
g
▷Initialized MAC network: agent prompts and pipeline
Require: At
▷Designed MAC network to generate target proxy
Require: G
▷Agent-based gradient function
Require: U
▷Agent-based update function
Require: E
▷Environment tool to generate loss
1: Define K as the number of self-evolving iterations, Φ as MACN generation process
2: # Target Proxy
3: T = Φ(X, At)
4: # Self-Evolving Procedure
5: for k = 0, 1, . . . , K −1 do
6:
# Forward Pass
7:
G(k) = Φ(X, A(k)
g )
8:
# Loss Computation
9:
L(k) = ⟨G(k), T⟩E
▷Use environment feedback as textual loss
10:
# Textual Backpropagation
11:
∇L(k) = G(L(k), A(k)
g )
▷Summarize textual gradient
12:
A(k+1)
g
= U(A(k)
g , ∇L(k))
▷Update agent prompts and pipeline
13: end for
14: return A(K)
g
, G(K)
9
PROMPTS
In this section, we present the agents’ prompts in EvoMAC, including coding organizer (Tab. 6),
coding agent (Tab. 7), testing organizer (Tab. 8), testing agent (Tab. 9), gradient agent (Tab. 10), and
update agent (Tab. 11).
10
SOFTWARE PRESENTATION
In this section, we show some games and websites written by EvoMAC. Fig. 12 and Fig. 13 present
the games and websites respectively. We see that: i) EvoMAC outputs games with well-written GUI
16


[PDF PAGE 17]
Preprint.
Table 6: Coding Organizer
According to the new user’s task and our software designs listed below:
Task: "{task}".
Task description: "{description}".
Modality: "{modality}".
Programming Language: "{language}"
Requirements analysis: "{requirements}"
Ideas:"{ideas}"
Coding plan: "{codes}"
Your goal is to organize a coding team to complete the software development task.
There are two default tasks:
1) log the user’s actions and events in a game.log file according to the task requirements in the write
format! Be careful and make sure to maintain the game.log file right! The log should happened after
the action is taken, record the most recent state.
2) create a user interface (GUI) for the game using the programming language and the requirements
analysis. The GUI should be beautiful and user-friendly.
Besides these tasks, you should pay attention to the unachieved requirements and think step by step to
formulate the requirements into concrete tasks.
You should follow the following format: ¨COMPOSITIONïs the composition of tasks, and ¨Workflowïs
the workflow of the programmers. Each task is assigned to a programmer, and the workflow shows the
dependencies between tasks.
### COMPOSITION
“‘
Task 1: Task 1 description
Task 2: Task 2 description
“‘
### WORKFLOW
“‘
Task 1: []
Task 2: [Task 1]
“‘
Please note that the decomposition should be both effective and efficient.
1) Each decomposed task should include the related the functions. The task description should be clear
and concise.
2) The composition should be kept as small as possible! (LESS THAN "{num_agents}"). If there are
more than 5 tasks, consider merging the tasks and focus on the most essential features.
3) The decomposed tasks should fully cover the task definitions.
4) The workflow should not contain circles!
and game rules. It can handle different kinds of GUI and game rule requirements from diverse games.
ii) EvoMAC outputs websites with beautified, user-friendly web pages and correct transition logic. It
can handle the requirements of different websites.
17


[PDF PAGE 18]
Preprint.
Table 7: Coding Agent
According to the new user’s task and our software designs listed below:
Task: "{task}".
Modality: "{modality}".
Programming Language: "{language}"
Sub-Task description: "{subtask}"
Codes:
"{codes}"
Unimplemented File:
"{unimplemented_file}"
Your first think step by step first reason yourself about the files and functions related to the sub-task.
Then you should output the COMPLETE code content in each file. Each file must strictly follow a
markdown code block format, where the following tokens must be replaced such that "FILENAME"
is the lowercase file name including the file extension, "LANGUAGE" in the programming language,
"DOCSTRING" is a string literal specified in source code that is used to document a specific segment
of code, and "CODE" is the original code. Format:
FILENAME
“‘LANGUAGE
”’
DOCSTRING
”’
CODE
“‘
Implementation Requirements:
1. As the assistant_role, to satisfy the complete function of our developed software, you have to
implement all functions which are related to the subtask.
2. If the function is implemented, recheck the logic and log to ensure the targeted feature is fully
achieved
3. Important: that both the logic and log should be fully functional! No placeholder (such as ’pass’ in
Python), strictly following the required format. You must strictly following the required format. You
must strictly following the required format.
4. Ensure the functions are consistent among different files, and correctely imported.
Additional Note: additional_note
18


[PDF PAGE 19]
Preprint.
Table 8: Testing Organizer
According to the software requirements listed below:
Task: "{task}".
Modality: "{modality}".
Programming Language: "{language}"
Your goal is to organize a testing team to complete the software development task.
There are four default tasks:
1) carefully test the logging mechanism according to the task requirements! The log should happened
immediately after the action is taken, record the most recent state. Remember the logging order is
very important, record basic operation first then record the subsequent events. Ensure the data format,
keys and values are accurate and right! Pay attention to the nested data type and carefully check each
element.
2) test the logging mechanism for the special triggered conditions.
3) test the value initialziation required by the task are correctly achieved, pay attention to the corrdinates.
4) test the function inputs and the global variable are imported in each functions, ensure the input values
and global variable used in the function are valid and involved when the function is called.
5) test each event in the task is implemented and that the logic triggered matches the conditions in the
task description.
Follow the format: "COMPOSITION" is the composition of tasks, and "Workflow" is the workflow of
the programmers.
### COMPOSITION
“‘
Task 1: Task 1 description
Task 2: Task 2 description
“‘
### WORKFLOW
“‘
Task 1: []
Task 2: [Task 1]
“‘
19


[PDF PAGE 20]
Preprint.
Table 9: Testing Agent
Our software requirements and developed source codes are listed below:
Programming Language: "{language}"
Source Codes:
"{codes}"
Testing Task description: "{subtask}"
According to Testing Task description, please write test cases to locate the bugs, note that logging is
important, ensure the content and format is right.
You should first locate the functions that need to be tested and write the test cases for them according to
the testing task description.
The output must strictly follow a markdown code block format, where the following tokens must
be replaced such that "FILENAME" is "test_file_name", "LANGUAGE" in the programming lan-
guage,"REQUIREMENTS" is the targeted requirement of the test case, and "CODE" is the test code
that is used to test the specific requirement of the file. Format:
FILENAME
“‘LANGUAGE
”’
REQUIREMENTS
”’
CODE
“‘
You will start with the "test_file_name" and finish the code follows in the strictly defined format.
Please note that:
1) The code should be fully functional. Ensure to implement all functions. No placeholders (such as
’pass’ in Python).
2) You should not write anything about log testing unless testing task description clearly state that the
logs need to be tested
3) You should write the test file with ’unittest’ python library.
4) You should not modify the source code, only write the test code. Very Important!
20


[PDF PAGE 21]
Preprint.
Table 10: Gradient Agent
Our developed source codes and corresponding test reports are listed below:
Programming Language: "{language}"
User requirement:
"{task}"
Source Codes:
"{codes}"
The execution outcome of our source codes:
"{test_reports}"
We also have write test case to test our source codes, our test codes are listed below:
"{test_codes}"
And the execution outcome of our test codes is:
"{testcase_reports}"
According to these imformation, please analyze the source code, test code and execution reports. Make
sure your analysis aligns with the source code and user requirements.
First, determine whether the error is caused by incorrect test code; if so, respond "Wrong test code."
The wrong type of test code includes not matching the user requirement, e.g. wrong value of the test
reference answer conflict with user requirement desciption or improper use of source code. Please be
careful and not make wrong judgment about the source code.
Second, if there exist bugs in the source code, give a detailed analysis of the problem. Your answer
MUST follow the format below:
file name:file_1.py
function name: function_1, function_2
detailed analysis of the problem: your analysis
file name:file_2.py
function name: function_3, function_4
detailed analysis of the problem: your analysis
Your answer should also follow the requirements below:
1) The answer should only include the analysis of the wrong source code. Please not include analysis of
the testcase error here. If all the reports show that there is no bugs in source codes and test codes, you
should just only reply: No error in codes.
2) You can answer more than one function name, but you can only answer one file name each time. If
you want to answer two file names, you should split it and answer with the format respectively.(Answer
the file_1.py and corresponding information with the format, and then answer the file_2.py and corre-
sponding information with the format)
3) You may include one or more function names in each file, but you should not include the same
function name in different files.
4) You should not answer anything about test file(e.g. file name: test_requirement_0.py) in your answer.
VERY IMPORTANT!
21


[PDF PAGE 22]
Preprint.
Table 11: Updating Agent
You are now an organization fine-tuner for the software development process.
Your task is to update the coding agent teams to ensure that the software requirements can be achieved.
The overall requirements, current coding agent teams, and the issues in current implementation of the
software are listed below:
Task and user requirements: "{task}".
Requirements: "{requirements}"
Coding team composition: "{composition}".
Coding team workflow: : "{workflow}".
Source Codes: "{codes}"
Execution Results: "test_reports" (Note: These results only indicate whether the code has runtime errors
and do not reflect functionality correctness.)
Current Issues: "{issues}".
As the assistant_role, you should give out a detailed plan to update the coding agent teams to ensure
that the software requirements can be achieved.
You should first think step by step, reasoning about Requirements, Source Codes, Execution Results,
and Current Issues to decide whether the source code has fully accomplished the coding requirements.
If here has any conflict, please refer to the Task and user requirements in checking the source code.
Then according to the requirement assessment, you should update the coding agent teams to ensure that
the software requirements can be achieved. You can take following actions:
1) Modify the existing coding agent prompts to focus on fixing runtime errors first, then work on
completing and perfecting the tasks. Each task should clearly define the issues the agent is expected to
solve.
2) Delete coding agents from the WORKFLOW whose requirements have been achieved.
3) Add new coding agent teams in the composition and workflow to ensure that the unimplemented
requirements can be achieved.
The requirement assessment should follow the "REQUIREMENTS PROGRESS" format: "achieved"
represents whether the requirement has been achieved, and "double-checked" represents whether the
requirement has been double-checked. The detailed progress should be included in the answer.
While the updated coding agent team should be in the following format: "COMPOSITION" is the
composition of programmers’ tasks, and "Workflow" is the workflow of the programmers. Each task is
assigned to a programmer, and the workflow shows the dependencies between programmers’ tasks.
### REQUIREMENTS PROGRESS
requirement: description of the requirement
achieved: True/False
double-checked: True/False
detailed progress: your analysis
### COMPOSITION
“‘
Programmer 1: Task 1 description - includes specific issues to resolve, necessary code modifications,
and expected improvements
Programmer 2: Task 2 description - includes specific issues to resolve, necessary code modifications,
and expected improvements
“‘
### WORKFLOW
“‘
Programmer 1: []
Programmer 2: [Programmer 1]
“‘
Please note that the coding team should be both effective and efficient.
1) Prioritize fixing runtime errors before addressing requirement issues.
2) Remove the agent from the origin Coding team workflow if the task has been fully completed.
3) The overall tasks should fully cover all uncomplished requirement and current issues. Make sure the
Task description as detail as possible. And NEVER include task that modifiy the code to satistify the
testing.
4) The composition are not limited to 2 agents. But if there are more than 10 tasks, consider merging
the tasks and focus on the most essential features.
5) The workflow should not contain circles!
22


[PDF PAGE 23]
Preprint.
(a) Balls
(b) Bomberman
(c) Mario
(d) Tank
(e) Brick
(f) Ghostly
23


[PDF PAGE 24]
Preprint.
(g) Racing
(h) Sokoban
Figure 12: Games generated by EvoMAC.
(a) CharitableGivingPlatform
(b) GardeningForBeginners
(c) PersonalBlog
24


[PDF PAGE 25]
Preprint.
(d) GourmetFoodSubscription
(e) OnlineTherapeuticJournaling
(f) MusicFestivalDirectory
Figure 13: Websites generated by EvoMAC.
25
